Dr. Jon S. Twing, is a retired psychometricia and data scientist and formerly a Senior Vice President for Pearson Assessments & Qualifications.  In his role at Pearson, he was responsible for all education and certification assessment development globally. He has more than 40 years of experience in experimental psychology, psychometrics, research and assessment development. Dr. Twing's expertice includes the  development, validity, and defensibility of learning systems that integrate measurement and instruction. Skills include item-response theory, classical measurement theory, generalizability theory, automated and human scoring, linking, scaling and equating as well as standard setting.

Dr. Twing's experience includes international assessment, providing measurement expertise to various organizations such as Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Abu Dhabi Education Council, The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in India and the Australian Curriculum Assessment and Reporting Authority (ACARA).  Dr. Twing is also a Research Fellow at the University of Oxford as well as the Unversity of Sydney, where he guides staff, students and policy regarding the scientific measurement of cognitive functions (http://www.education.ox.ac.uk/about-us/directory/dr-jon-s-twing/; https://sydney.edu.au/arts/our-research/centres-institutes-and-groups/centre-for-educational-measurement-and-assessment.html )

Dr. Twing serves or has served as a member of numerous boards, committees and service organizations, including The College Board Psychometric Panel, American Educational Research Association, National Council on Measurement in Education, Council of Chief State School Officers, The Association of Test Publishers, and the American Psychological Association, The University of Iowa College of Education Advisory Board, the ACT Aspire Board of Directors to name a few. He was once Pearson’s global voice regarding assessment, research, measurement best practices and legal defensibility of assessment.  He has presented to numerous state legislative committees, federal legislators, and White House and other government parlimentary staff.
